There are 5 people working on a train track and 1 person working on a parallel track, you see an oncoming train heading directly for the 5 people, you see however there is a switch which would divert the train to the single person on the track. Would you pull the switch? If so you are employing what is called "utilitarianism" and doing what is right based on what produces the greatest good, in this case saving 5 people instead of 1. Most people respond this way.

Now imagine instead of 1 person on the track there is a man on the bridge, if you push him you know he will stop the train and save the 5 people working, would you push him off? Most people would say no, but why is this different from the first argument? People will raise that this is a case of murder and murder is always wrong, but so is the first scenerio.

My own view is that the worker on the track entered into an implicit contract the risk of being hit by a train and we view it as acceptable, however the man on the bridge is just walking by he was detached from the situation until you bought him into it. So what should our morals be based on, hard rules or utilitarianism? If we dig deeper into this case why do we think it's bad to murder this man? It's because we don't want to live in a society where you can be randomly sacrificed for other people without your consent, you view it as more valuable than saving the lives of those extra 4 people. In this sense it is still utiliarianism, but taking the future into account. If we based our morals on what causes the greatest good for all of society for the rest of time, it seems to map onto almost all of our decisions. What if killing this man saves 5000 lives, 5 million lives? The "rule" of murder suddenly gets more hazy.

Let's map this example onto our original abortion act idea with the definition utilitarianism being "the thing that causes the greatest collective wellbeing is the right decision". Let's use our previous evidence in the what to believe section saying that conciousness may be present at 26 weeks and the embryo is "alive", what is the right thing to do? We might want to think about what kind of life the woman and child are both going to have. Would this apply for only healthy babies or those we know will have conditions such as fetal alcohol syndrome or hodkinsons disease? Does a womans freedom over her own body extend to the baby inside of her? Is individual freedom worth more than a life?

If another species is discovered that we can prove gets more enjoyment from killing us than we do from suffering should they be allowed to destroy us all in that pursuit? Based on our previous framework I would argue yes, you may feel like this shouldn't be the case, because we are humans and we are special, or through some act of self-preservation. But is there a scenerio already in the world we let this happen? We already kill millions of chickens, cows and other domesticated animals for this very reason, we feel like we are a superior species who will get more enjoyment from eating them than they will experiencing life. Indeed many of us will go vegetarian or vegan who oppose this view, and its certaintly one of the many debates we should have using the previous frameworks of logic and observation we have discussed.
