Someone argues against the bill, arguing that not only is he not pro-life, he is anti-life. He belives we are all living in a simulation and the best thing to do right now is for everyone to die and fight the machines who have enslaved us in this simulation. What evidence are you going to point to that proves this theory false?

We can point to how real the world is, how detailed, how could a machine possibly create all of this? But he says that's exactly what our universe is, one giant computer just executing instructions one after the other. You point out how it feels to smell a hot cup of coffee, to smell the first flowers of spring. He counters that we know even now all those senses are just muscles and nerves sending signals to your brain. We could eventually create a simulation inside a simulation that makes it so you can't tell the difference between virtually smelling a flower and really smelling it.

If your sensing a deceiving you what do you have left? You can create machines to measure objects instead, but those objects themselves are part of the simulation and just repeating the stimulus. So we take away our senses, we are left with our mind.

Okay I know I am present, becuase I am currently doubting the existence of everything. However the act of you doubting is just a result of your simulated brain trying to interpret new information. The only reason you think you are _you_ is because of 1s and 0s firing at the right time to produce the sensation of your identity, and that you are doubting something. The most you can say is that "thinking is happening", even thinking may be too strong of a word as it assumes there is someone existing to do the thinking. Rather we can say whatever is happening there is entropy, something is happening rather than nothing. The system is on and not off.

This is the arguement of skepticism, and for our ideal society I believe we need to take it for a fact that we can't be absolutely sure anything is real, even thought and logic. In order to get back to real ground we need to form our first axiom - a principle that is accepted true without evidence.

We will say that we believe in the rules of the universe, and what we are experincing is actually happening. Once we make this leap we can start to create the foundations of mathmatics and logic, however we need to be humble that these statements are only true because we have never found any evidence that is contrary to that belief.

We believe 1 + 1 = 2, why? Because when I put 1 apple and 1 apple together they have always made 2 apples. I believe in cause and effect, if I have an apple in my hand it's because something caused it to be there. I believe in logic, I can't be both holding the apple and not holding the apple at the same time. This is a contradiction.

These instances of logic are part of our intuition, but we can only believe them because we have never seen evidence to the contrary. Indeed when we get to the very edges of our universe and start to describe how it was created in the first place, we may need to think that outside of the universe there may be not cause and effect or logic, and may be one of the reasons we haven't found a way to reason into existence our universe.
