Once we are off the island of skepticism which makes any truth impossible we only have 2 tools to work with to form new knowledge: logic and observation. With these objects we can build up to everything we currently know, and everything we will ever know.

If we go back to our abortion example, how could we go about contructing an argument to figure out when an embryo becomes alive? I could observe that every animal which interacts with the world has a brain, and in measuring and experimenting we can observe that the way neurons fire seem to have a strong correlation with how someone behaves. Then logically I could argue to be concious you need to have a brain with firing neurons. This happens at about 26 weeks of pregnency.

I could also say there is part of reality we cannot see or measure, this is where our souls live, and at the point of inception the soul infuses with the embryo and is now a life. However I currently have never observed this or created the instruments to observe it and therefore the argument is weaker than the first. The more something has been observed and measured without changing behaviour the stronger reason we have to believe it is true.

But why risk it? Afterall we could just ban abortions and then if the first case was true after all no harm is done? The problem with this logic is we can use it to justify literally any action. If I decide never to order ice cream, because I believe everytime I do it will be sold out for a small child later in the day who would enjoy it more, people would immediately ask why I think that? What is my justification? Where is my evidence? I just should not eat ice cream.
